As we've discussed, FinTech is a broad and
really quite difficult to define industry.
It covers banking,
credit cards, securities,
cryptocurrencies, lending,
investment advising, and much more.
In regulating new technologies associated
even with these existing industries,
often requires thinking about
a new framework for regulation and
also who should bear
the responsibility for
supervising and
intervening in these particular markets.
Another issue besides the breath with
which regulators have to think about
a regulatory framework, involves the fact
that inherently we are thinking about
regulation in an industry and in a space
that is evolving incredibly rapidly.
Alfred Kahn the Nobel laureate said this
with respect to regulation generally.
That it almost was an inevitable game
of Whac-A-Mole, what is Whac-A-Mole?
Well, for those of you who don't know,
it is a fantastic arcade game where
a bunch of holes come out of a wall.
And in essence you, the player, has a
mallet and when one of a mole comes out of
one of these holes, you hit the mole
with the mallet as fast as you can.
And then another mole comes out of another
hole and kind of the objective of this
particular game is to hit as many moles
as you can in a certain period of time.
Why is this a good analogy for
the regulatory space?
Well, you worry that when you
restrict one particular kind of
practice of a financial institution or
a financial technology provider.
Then inevitably, another sort of very
similar practice is going to emerge and
the regulator is kind of going to always
be playing catch up with respect industry.
And that's especially true
with respect to FinTech,
where the entire nature
of this industry involves
leveraging new technologies in
innovative ways successfully.
And so it's kind of inevitable
that regulators will be one step
behind the innovators and
have difficulty figuring out how
best to supervise in this setting.
Alfred Kahn, of course, didn't think
that this was a reason not to regulate.
He had a very clever analogy for what he
thinks of the role of a regulator that can
help enlighten us with respect
to financial technologies.
More broadly, his view for
regulation was that just as a sort of
as industry is clever and there will
inevitably be holes in the dike,
dike is like a container for
water let's say.
The role of the regulator is to, as there
will always be holes that emerge in
the dike, there will always be
new fingers that sprout for
the regulator to sort of try and
restrict water from flowing out.
And so the point is, that regulator have
to and the industry will always evolve and
financial technology in particular
will always reform itself.
And adjust to sort of work around
regulatory frameworks in ways that our
profit maximizing for institutions.
But what regulators must do is they must
be clever and thoughtful and adept and
quick in responding to new risks
as they emerge in these markets.
Another issue with respect to
financial regulation broadly and
financial technology regulation
specifically, is that we
are struck by the fact that these
markets are actually inherently global.
And if there's no sort of global
coordination around regulatory framework,
this becomes quite difficult even for
countries which decide that it's
important to pay attention to risks as
they build up in these new sectors.
So for example, if there is very strict
regulation of new financial technology
service providers in the United States,
which tends to be on one side of
the spectrum in these discussions.
Then there's concern that first
innovation will gravitate outside of
the United States.
But second, the risks that build
up in other countries with
respect to financial technologies
that the US doesn't have
jurisdiction over may still harm
consumers in the US market.
And so how do we deal with the fact
that risks are really global rather than
national in financial markets.
Here in the United States with
respect to financial regulation,
a few points seem quite relevant.
First as we've discussed,
financial regulation encompasses
a broad swath of different industries.
These industries are currently regulated
by distinct regulatory agencies
with different mandates and
different standards for
what they deem acceptable and
promoting of financial stability.
I happened to work at the White House
in the aftermath of the crisis and
as we were conceiving of the new post
crisis financial regulatory framework.
What was hoped for and
conceived of as a massive
innovation was to create a structure where
one particular regulator was kind of
in charge of overseeing the entire
financial services industry.
In reality, individual regulators still
maintain significant power over regulating
their particular domains.
And in many industries, participants
are required to meet the standards of
a swath of different financial regulators.
For example,
the SEC deals with investment advising,
the Federal Reserve deals with retail
banking, and the consumer protection
bureau is the consumer facing
arm of the regulatory framework.
This means that sort of large financial
institutions are beholden into
the Federal Reserve but
also must meet the mandates of the Bureau
of Consumer Financial Protection.
This creates a real question over
who is best suited to regulate
financial technology service providers.
Perhaps most naturally the answer to
this question depends on the nature of
the financial technology
that we're thinking about.
For example, if it's Bank of
America's new mobile app that
allows you to deposit
checks on your phone.
Well, perhaps the Federal Reserve is
already regulating Bank of America and so
it's natural for
them to also supervise this new
kind of technological development.
Or maybe it's
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
because the concerns that we would have
with these new financial innovations
are primarily that they will be abused or
misused or deceptively advertised
to consumers who are customers
of these financial institutions.
But there are real concerns with having
such a fragmented regulated system.
Two concerns that we had at the White
House with respect to the financial
regulatory framework were first that
having such different authorities be
responsible for different aspects of the
financial sector meant that information
would get stuck with one regulator and
not find its way to the other.
Even though together these two different
agencies set of impact information
might hint at risks building up in
a particular sector of the economy.
And so there was a concern about the lack
of ability of information to flow very
freely between regulators.
There's also a concern that from the
perspective of industry if you could be
regulated through a state banking charter
or you could be regulated through
a federal banking charter your
incentives are a structure to try and
find the regulator who's
going to be easiest on you.
There's empirical evidence that is
exactly what financial firms do.
So it seems quite important to create
a regulatory structure that allows for
information to flow freely, and
discourages the short of regulation
shopping, that we know is commonplace
among sophisticated financial players.